>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's
talk about exceptions.
We've seen exceptions quite a bit
over the course of this class.
We've seen type error, syntax error,
value error, indentation error.
But we haven't really figured
out what to do about them.
We saw some simple try excepts yesterday.
But that's not enough in the course
of a more complex program.
So I'm gonna tell you a little bit
about the exception of hierarchy,
about raising exceptions, and
about how do you use try catch,
and how to create our own
custom exception process.
So a little bit about exceptions.
>> Nina Zakharenko: The built-in
exceptions and exception handling,
it's a really nice feature of Python.
Those syntax errors that we've seen,
they do a pretty good job of
telling us what went wrong, right?
>> Nina Zakharenko: If we
get an indentation error,
we know that we didn't
indent our code properly.
If we get a value error,
that means that something is wrong
with the input that we gave, right?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Even if
the syntax is totally correct,
sometimes errors occur
when your program is run.
For example, if you tried to run our final
exercise from introduction to Python and
you didn't have a valid
internet connection,
it would just raise an exception that
we didn't catch and exit the program.
So even if your syntax is 100% correct,
your program can still have exceptions.
Unhandled exceptions
are fatal to your program.
It's gonna print out a traceback and
then quit your code wherever
it was at that time.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
it'll stop your interpreter.
It'll exit your program.
So for production code, having uncaught
exceptions is pretty bad, right?
Just take down your website,
depending on kind of what you're seeing.
Or if you're using a web server,
your end user will see a 500 error.
And that's not very good, right?
But once you learn a little bit more about
these exceptions and about how to handle
them, it'll help you write apps that are
a lot more robust in the face of issues.
So some common types of
exceptions that you might see,
there are a few more in the Python
documentation, but very quickly.
AttributeError, if I tried to use a
attribute name that wasn't on my instance,
I would get this error.
ImportError, if I try to import
something that wasn't found.
KeyError, we've seen this one,
if a key was not in our dictionary.
SyntaxError, the parser just doesn't
even know what to do with your file.
IndentationError, if you're messing
with the level of indentation for
if statements, classes, etc, functions,
where you need to have your first
line of code indented one level.
And this KeyboardInterrupt error,
that's an interesting one.
So for those of you who have
been seeing me use use the REPL,
>> Nina Zakharenko: You've seen me hit
maybe Ctrl+C.
If I'm typing something and
I'm like, I made a mistake, I don't
wanna hit Enter and get a syntax error.
I know that this isn't valid code.
I could hit Ctrl+C.
It doesn't run my code.
And in this case,
it generates a KeyboardInterrupt error.
>> Nina Zakharenko: For
programs that you run on the command line,
if it's taking a really long time,
we've been writing pretty fast scripts,
and you wanna exist out of it,
you can hit Ctrl+C.
It'll generate a keyboard error, and it'll
quit your program while it's running.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Just a quick thing
about this KeyboardInterrupt error.
Let me take a look at
the Python documentation here.
So these built-in exceptions, we'll see
that there's an exception base class.
And all of the exceptions
mostly use this base class
in terms of their object hierarchy.
We, in our program code,
don't want to do that.
If we're going to be handling exceptions,
we always want to handle types that
are of exception Exception,
never BaseException.
Exception here is one of
the subclasses of BaseException.
If we catch BaseException, we're gonna
also catch those KeyboardInterrupt errors.
Someone will be running your script,
press Ctrl+C, and it won't do anything.
And they're gonna get pretty mad at you.
So remember that, don't catch
BaseException, catch Exception instead.